# Time-series-uni-Project
Selection of Value at risk model for energy commodities.


During this project we are taking six variables expressed as prices such as: WTI, Europe Brent, Propane, Kerosene, Heating Oil,Gasoline. Firstly we used some tests to analyse some statistics of the Data, like for example the stationarity of the process. Then we built some models, precisely, sGARCH models with all the distributions, and we applied the Backtesting procedure either at 95% and 99% with the VaR prediction and the DQ test. If the models that we had passed more than two of three tests, we applied the MCS procedure developed by Hansen et al. (2011), an MCS is a set of models that is constructed so that it will contain the best model with a given level of confidence, in our case we applied both the levels. In the other part of the project we applied the Garch Midas models, that are models, that mix different frequencies of dates. In our case we used the Covid deaths as a Midas variable to put in our models. We then created the matrices with all the values we needed: the returns of the variables that we mentioned before, considered as weekly, and the Covid deaths already taken as weekly. We then applied the Garch Midas procedure on all the variables and then we proceded as we did before with the VaR prediction and the DQ test for these kind of models. We saw which one passed two out of the three tests, and then we applied the MCS procedure on these models. In the end we tried to use the MCS procedure for both these models together to see the final models.
